Basic Financial v1.0 User Guide

- Made by Zac Monroe for A290 Android App Development at IUB

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Hello and welcome to Basic Financial! We are here to assist you in your
financial life. Whether you're strapped for cash or a 10% shareholder for Apple,
you need a budget in order to not go broke. Basic Financial makes that part of
your life simple by giving you the tools for personal financial success.

  Budgeting is the name of the game when it comes to managing your nickels and
dimes; without any form of a budget, money can slip right out from your
fingertips, week after week, only being noticed when you need it the most. Our
app makes this simple: you add a transaction to the week, say whether it puts
money into the budget or takes money out of the budget, fill out a small form,
and BOOM! You've got yourself a completed transaction for the week.

  Regarding the form, you just need to give the transaction a name -- something
like "Starbucks" or "Phone bill" or "Tax refund" --, a dollar amount, and a
small tag to provide any extra description you might want (such as "Bi-weekly",
"Necessity", "Leisure", etc). Checking a small box lets the app know whether
this transaction is of a few special types: Paycheck, Bill, and Loan. If you
check that the transaction is a bill or a loan (and then add the transaction to
the week), the "Special" column in your budget will say what it is. If you check
the Loan checkbox that appears after checking the Bill checkbox, not only will
the Special value for that transaction be "Loan"; you'll also get some nifty
tools for managing your loan! Just input what it asks for and you can get some
helpful information for future planning for the loan and its payments. Do note
that the app only stores the payment amount for the loan; if you want to access
the special tools again, you'll have to go through the process of adding another
transaction (though if you don't want to add it again, you don't have to).

  If there are any of the fields that you don't want to fill in in the forms,
that's okay too! Our app is structured in a way that each of those fields are
completely optional.

  On the main screen, you can delete any of the transactions that you've added
to the current week by the press of the X button next to it. Below all the
week's transactions is the amount of money you have left to spend before going
broke as well as a couple other informative tips about what you can do with
whatever remaining money you have.

  Is 7 days not enough for you? Try going to the budget screen for a later week
by pressing the Next button at the top. You can go back to the week you were
just viewing by pressing the Prev button on the opposite side.

  If you're thinking about investing the money that you've saved by budgeting
with Basic Financial, we can sure help you with that too. Access the navigation
drawer by either pressing the button in the top left of the Budgeting screen or
by swiping in from the left side of the screen: Viola, navigation! From here,
you can go to the investing tools by tapping the Investment Mapping option.

  Basic Financial's investment tools are for estimation only and should be taken
with a grain of salt. We have no way of accurately predicting any market for any
investment, and we unfortunately cannot guarantee any return on investment for
our users.

  Add a principally invested amount and an expected yearly growth amount. The
next field, the Weekly contribution field, is a well-kept secret in the world of
investing. Yes, continually compounded interest is extremely powerful, but
what's even more powerful is a habit. Adding a specified amount of cash to an
investment each week (this is possible with some investments but not all) can
exponentially change the final outcome of the return. Building this habit also
can help promote healthy spending habits otherwise, so if you've got the cash,
what are you waiting for?

  The last main screen of Basic Financial, also accessed from the navigation
drawer, is the Settings menu. There's not much there right now; why do you think
we're called BASIC Financial?! Eventually, as we add more and more features, we
will give you more components to tinker with on this page. Until then, you can
view any of the tags you've given to a transaction and view some basic info
about the app from here.

  That's about as much as I'm going to tell you, Padawan User. Now go out there
and show your wallet what you're made of!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Basic Financial Team
  - (Zac Monroe)
